the name of this tutorial is IRA crack
aus blender 2.49 be soft bodies tutorial
soft bodies are materials that have some
flexibility that can deform themselves
when forces such as friction or gravity
are applied to them soft body objects
are common in real life think of
clothing draped on a person or model
jello rubber or even metals under
certain circumstances they range in a
degree of flexibility you need to tweak
the soft body settings to get the object
to resemble the type of material you're
trying to model rubber tires certainly
don't deform in the same way as a
balloon or a cape on a Batman in this
tutorial I will introduce you to the
basic concepts behind soft body physics
we're going to see how a soft body
responds to gravity think of a towel
swinging on a towel rack affected by
wind and gravity start with the default
blender scene go to front view num1 will
delete the default cube right click to
select press the Delete key and enter to
confirm it a grid space add mesh grid
with X resolution and y resolution both
set at 20 blender units move the grid
four or five blender units up in the
blue Z direction if the grid is an
object mode press tab to go into edit
mode make sure all the vertices is
selected if not press the a key go to
the edit buttons f9 the soft body
physics requires that you create a
vertex group consisting of all the
vertices that will participate in the
soft body simulation in the Lincoln
materials panel there's a group of
buttons for creating vertex groups click
the new button to make all the selected
vertices in this case all the vertices
in the grid part of the vertex group
called group let's change the name to
soft group make sure the case matches
exactly with the name starting with the
capital S and the rest of the name and
lower case you can define more than one
vertex group for our purposes we'll use
just this one the weight refers to the
default weight setting for each vertex
in the group we can change this later
when we wait paint the grid
so that certain vertices are not
affected by the soft body physics and
others are the default of one means that
no vertices deform to the maximum soft
body calculation will do the opposite
we'll set the weight 20 and click on a
sign at this setting all the vertices
are affected by the soft body
calculations what does this mean let's
enable soft body calculations to do that
with the grit selected tab into object
mode select the object buttons f7 and
then click on the physics buttons click
on the soft body button then click the
use goal button click the little icon
with the up and down arrows to show that
soft group vertex group has been
selected and that's it navigate with
either the middle mouse button or all
left click if your computer has the
emulate 3d mouse button enabled and user
preferences to give the view some
downward perspective to start the soft
body animation with the 3d cursor in the
3d window press alt a or press alt shift
day which will make the animation work
in wall windows what happened the object
falls to the ground press escape to stop
the animation the objects affected by
friction masks gravity and speed
settings in particular the gravity
setting 9.8 has the most effect 9.8 is
the setting for Earth's gravity so the
idea is that the object falling into the
ground something like it would under
earth-like conditions if we set say
friction to a high number change it to 5
from its default and then press all day
to rerun the animation the object falls
to the ground a lot slower because of
the friction the animation takes place
over blenders default of 250 frames at
25 frames per second and you can change
that not all the vertices in the vertex
group have to be affected by soft body
physics this happens a lot in real life
think of a towel hanging on a towel rack
or a flag waving in the wind the part of
the towel flag that's closest to the
towel rack or flagpole stay still while
the rest of the towel or flag is
affected painting the mesh to
Fleck realistically what moves and what
doesn't move is the key to making the
soft body effect realistic blenders
weight paint feature lets us do exactly
that to show how this works go to top
you num seven then switch to wait paint
mode note how the grid turns all blue
press the N key to access the weight
paint properties panel what this'll does
is allow us to paint onto the mesh the
areas we want affected by the soft body
calculation there's a color gradient
between zero and one blue standing 40
and red standing for one set the way to
one you can set other parameters such as
opacity and brush size as well as blend
with the other underlying mesh colors
but for now we'll keep it simple and
just make the right corner not be
affected by the soft body physics paint
along the right corner of the grid note
that it turns red go to front view num1
and give them a some downward
perspective as before start the
animation alt shift a now instead of the
soft body falling through the floor the
effect is more like a towel hanging on a
towel rack with the ready area not
moving and the blue area swinging soft
bodies can interact with other objects
in a realistic way let's add a sphere in
an area that would be affected by the
swinging soft body press shift C to
position the 3d cursor at 0 0 0 at the
origin then add an eye Coast fear space
add mesh ecosphere accepting the
defaults press alt shift day to animate
the soft body is not affected by the
sphere even though you would want the
mesh to drape around the sphere somehow
to get that effect select the ICO sphere
go to the physics buttons and click on
collision start the animation alt shift
a the mesh now wraps around the ico
sphere more or less as if a towel
collided with a big ball while the towel
was swinging in the wind you can tweak
the inner outer absorption and damping
settings to get the effect you want we
can have a lot of fun with soft bodies
let's delete the ICO sphere by selecting
it pressing the Delete
and pressing enter to confirm let's
paint the left edge of the mesh red so
it's not affected by soft body physics
again go to top view make sure the
weight paint is set to 1 paint the left
edge of the grid red press all day to
animate now the grid object behaves more
like a hammock motionless on the side
but responsive to gravity in between
press escape to end the animation go
back into weight paint let's paint the
four corners red and the rest of the
mesh blue and will change the gravity
setting from 9.8 to negative 9.8 to make
the mesh respond as if it was pulled
upwards by gravity press alt shift day
to anime note how the effect is as if
the mesh was blown upward although
anchored at its corners I hope you get
the idea by now there's a lot you can do
with soft bodies I hope you're inspired
to experiment with this marvelous tool
if you are don't forget to hit the
YouTube subscribe button and to discuss
my tutorial at forum Tyra Cracow calm
happy blendering